The system designed is very much needed for organizational engagement with open source. With the rapid evolution of open source software companies are in need of the developed system due to the increase use of open source software. Open source is very useful to companies, because of how much time it saves and how much money using open source will be saved. Most companies have struggles along a project, sometimes the obstacles or struggles have been encountered by other companies or individuals, and the company or an individual posts a solution to the problem encountered. Instead of spending more money and time to figure the solution the company or the individual can search if there is an open solution to the problem. The issue is that open source software includes licenses and vulnerabilities, and policies, which must be taken into consideration before using the software, or code.

The system designed firsts requires the submission of a software package which is submitted by the developer. The software package is then submitted to a process that manages the software package for licenses and vulnerabilities; the package goes through several scanning processes. The package goes through a check for vulnerabilities, the software package name gets sent to the NIST Database and then the vulnerability results are sent back from the NIST Database. The software package also gets sent to be scanned for licenses, and the results are sent back after checking for the licenses. After the scanning process is complete the information gets stored in a licenses and vulnerabilities database. The developer can request for project licenses and vulnerabilities and get the results, and the manager also posses the ability to request and receive licenses and vulnerabilities information. The developer can request for policy documents and get the results, and the manager posses the same ability, however the manager can also add policy documents.
